>We see three critical differences between programming and software engineering: time, scale, and the trade-offs at play. On a software engineering project, engineers need to be more concerned with the passage of time and the eventual need for change. In a software engineering organization, we need to be more concerned about scale and efficiency, both for the software we produce as well as for the organization that is producing it. Finally, as software engineers, we are asked to make more complex decisions with higher-stakes outcomes, often based on imprecise estimates of time and growth. Within Google, we sometimes say, “Software engineering is programming integrated over time.” Programming is certainly a significant part of software engineering: after all, programming is how you generate new software in the first place. If you accept this distinction, it also becomes clear that we might need to delineate between programming tasks (development) and software engineering tasks (development, modification, maintenance). The addition of time adds an important new dimension to programming. Cubes aren’t squares, distance isn’t velocity. Software engineering isn’t programming.

Programação faz parte da engenharia de software, mas ela também incorpora o fator tempo, escala e decisões complexas com consequências significativas.A passagem de tempo junto com a escala são partes vitais dela,como saber seu prazo e o tamanho de seu projeto ao mesmo tempo que trade-offs sao igualmente importantes pois não ha linguagem ou sistema que só ha ganhos e sempre temos que nos planejar e escolher ferramentas que se adequem a situação problema.Modificações são uma parte importante da engenharia de software também pois um bom jeito de descrever ela é "programação integrada ao longo do tempo".
